well the UN is warning that gaza's
pregnant women are particularly at risk
around 50,000 women in the territory are
pregnant at the moment with more than
5,000 due to give birth this month
doctors warn that they are overwhelmed
by emergency cases which they have to
prioritize medical facilities are under
massive strain endangering neonatal
intensive care and cesarian
sections well Sarah hris is UN women
Deputy EX itive director for policy and
she joins us from New York welcome to DW
so what sort of Fate awaits the more
than 5 a half thousand women who are due
to give birth in Gaza this
month Bill thank you we're seeing with
the DraStic escalation of violence a
severe impact on the lives of women and
girls which you and women is deeply
concerned about the 5,000 women who who
are due to give birth this month will
face hospitals that are at an
unprecedented level of Devastation not
only with an overwhelming number of
injuries and critical shortages of
medical personnel but also critical
shortages of electricity of fuel of
water surgeries happening without
anesthesia mothers about to give birth
who wonder will they and their children
survive so are women and or children
dying be uh during birth because they
don't have access to Medical
Care indeed Phil this is a situation
across the world where maternal
mortality is increased by levels of
poverty but maternal mortality and
infant mortality goes up proportionate
to also situations of of Crisis and one
that we're seeing in Gaza could not be
more desperate the escalation of
violence is leaving women fundamentally
facing unimaginable death but also
deprivation it is those 5,000 women who
are about to give birth but it is also
the
690,000 women that un women estimates
are now displaced 45% of gaza's
infrastructure and housing has been
destroyed and these women are now in
overcrowded shelters trying to take care
not just of their children in situations
that are unimaginable without toilets
without water without food left
essentially to ask themselves will we
survive yet another day okay so we have
emergency hospitals as you say
overwhelmed by having to deal with
emergencies so pregnant women sort of
fall down the priority list the the good
news in the last day or so has been the
opening of the the the Rafa Crossing and
is pregnancy a criteria uh that counts
towards people being allowed out of the
territory uh that
way to my knowledge at this point the um
focus has been on uh uh foreign passport
holders but also those who are
critically injured right of course we've
seen with the devastation of violence uh
that with the devastation as a result of
expansion of violence and Relentless
bombardment um that the numbers of
injured are significant over 21,000
people have been injured according to
latest statistics um and this of course
adds to the number of fatalities with
nearly 70% of those killed in Gaza
actually being women and children right
the the the the figures are are
staggering but it it's one of those
situations where you just you sort of
look at it and think well aside from uh
asking for the fighting to stop or aside
from the fighting to stop what can
anyone do about
this it's a really important question I
think as people are sitting at home
looking at their TVs they number one
need to stay informed they need to leave
in and be informed not just about these
massive scale of numbers but the lives
of individual women lives like Farah hat
who we've just recently spoken to she's
a mother of three children she's
currently Sheltering in a house with 10
other families 60 people and 100 square
meters 25 children what she said to us
is we are waiting wondering whether it
will be our turn now to face the
unthinkable there's another woman a Mani
a mother of four children who just said
to us this week that the dreams and
aspirations of her children are now
condensed in a singular fervent plea
which is fundamentally just to survive
just to survive these are women who are
showing such high resilience as they
take care of their
families at home listeners can sorry
please go ahead I was going to say thank
you for for talking us through those
alarming statistics we wish you well
thanks for sparing us the time Sarah
Hendrick from un
women thank you so
much